	Troubleshooting of Computer Systems with subject code CPE 421 green-lights students to get the hang of putting one's finger on and figure out technical problems. The theory of troubleshooting is it starts with general and often the most obvious possible issues and narrows it down to more specific ones. Troubleshooting is used to fix problems with hardware, software and many other computer-related things. Hardware refers to the physical parts of the computer and related devices. Internal hardware devices include motherboards, hard drives and RAM (Random Access Memory) while external devices include monitors, keyboards, computer mice, printers and scanners. Software, on the other hand, consists of the programs and applications that run on computers making it virtual and trickier to troubleshoot. Occasionally, technical problems can also exist on the computer's network or connectivity disabling communication with other devices.
	It is known that we started the subject with another instructor and a different course outline. At first, I had mixed emotions about the subject for we are tasked to do a report on a given topic assigned by our former instructor which I found it odd because there is no denying the fact that engineering students are not into that style of learning. It was never our forte to report. We would rather do a hands-on activity or skill test to learn individually. On the bright side, we were given a chance to train our speaking ability in front of the class which is not that bad for someone who isn't used to articulate ideas in front of a huge crowd. In addition, a door has been opened for us to dig deeper about software and hardware components and peripherals of a personal computer including microprocessors, the motherboard, RAM, hard disk drive, computer mice, monitor, the PSU or Power Supply Unit, SCSI or Small Computer System Interface, expansion cards such as NIC or Network Interface Card, video card and sound or audio card, the Integrated Graphics, router, modem and scanner in which I know that my classmates, if not all but plenty including myself, superficially understand beforehand and of course without neglecting the vitality of troubleshooting certain technical problems. Also, I was looking forward with great expectations since getting NCII or TESDA's National Certification is being considered.
	So when the news reached me that a new instructor will handle this subject it left me in complete awe and shock. Surprise because I thought the whole semester for this subject was flawlessly planned out which leads me to feel a little bit disappointed for the sudden changes. Nevertheless, the newly assigned instructor didn't disappoint me for the reason that he didn't let us feel like everything we did, the preparation for the report and all, was for nothing. To cut it short, he kindly gave us the upper hand. It was a nice gesture coming from someone way above from us and speaking on behalf of the class, the said gesture was greatly appreciated. Throughout those times, I already learned a great deal of information about troubleshooting including tips and tricks for fixing software, hardware and even connectivity. These doesn't limit to power cycling the computer for it just reset everything and hopefully get rid of the glitch, making sure the software is updated and installed properly and a lot more. It may sound basic to others but certainly very useful especially with the virtual and trickier part of troubleshooting.
	I would be lying if I say I wasn't disappointed for not getting a certification at the very end of this course. This is exactly what people get whenever they expect too much from someone or something. It was substituted with research works since everything happened for a reason. These research works allowed us to explore deeper the great world of troubleshooting. Most of them are computer-related thing and technology terms that I haven't heard before and probably wouldn't hear if we intend to follow the original outline. Besides we were able to diagnose problems with a raspberry pi and another computer that served as quizzes as well. To sum it up, it was the best “apology” or replacement I could ever get. Giving us time to study before major exams deserved a mention too for it gave us the permission to review without sacrificing any other subject or in general time just so we could pass the examination. It is rare to get that from instructors nowadays so I very much appreciated it to extent.
	There are countless of new ideas or lessons from this course though it’s not a secret that almost all product manuals have a “Troubleshooting” section in the back of the manual. This section contains a list of potential problems, which are often phrased in the form of a question. Typically, each of these questions will be followed by specific advice, whether the answer is Yes or No. Sometimes, this advice is presented as a flowchart diagram. This means each question is followed by a series of other questions, depending on the answer. However, in many cases, only single solutions are provided for each question. Having these manuals is would be consider as a big help but we aren't train just to rely on these things, are we?
	Overall, whether we ended up with two instructors or even not, it doesn't lessen any lessons that we acquire from this subject. For the fact that Computer Engineering students deal with a lot of computers, components and peripherals, troubleshooting is somewhat a usual event for us. It would be bizarre if we don't encounter much of identifying and solving technical problems. Troubleshooting is something we all have to do at some point, though some of us have to troubleshoot issues more often than others. The good news is that, the more you do it, the more you learn and the better you get at fixing problems. Since many have troubleshooting steps, you may find that after a while, you don't even need the manual to find solutions to the problems you encounter and to keep you to move forward.